# KN07: Kubernetes II

## A) Begriffe und Konzepte erlernen (40%)

### Pods vs Replicas

Pods are the smallest and most basic unit which can be deployed in kubernetes. A Pod is similar to a capusule
containing one or more docker containers, which are tightly coupled and share ressources. When a Pod crashes or dies, it's completely gone. 

Replicas aren't standalone units like Pods, but rather a Replicaset. Replicasets ensure that there are enought Pod replicas 
running at all times. If a Pod in a Replicaset dies, the Replicaset automatically creates new Pod to mantain the needed amount. 

### Service vs Deployment

Deployment describes how your app should be deployed. It defines which container image to use, how many replicas of app shoould run, and how updates should be handled. 

Service is a way to expose groups of pods. Service provides a stable IP address and a DNS name for a group of pods. It is like a load balancer, routing traffic to the runnnig to the running pods that belong to that service. 

### Ingress

It solves the problem of external access to services within a cluster. Without Ingress, you would have to configure seperate load balanders for each service which you want to expose externally. 
It acts as a intellifgent reverse Proxy or API gateway for HTTP and HTTPS traffic. 

### StatefulSet

It is a controller specifically for managing stateful applications. The provide stable, unique network identities, persisten storage and deployment and scaling for its pods. 
It ensures that Pods, even if restarted or rescheduled, retain their identity and their associated storage. 

A messaging platform such as Apache Kafka, for example, requires fixed IDs for its broker nodes so that messages are processed correctly. A stateful set ensures that each broker retains its specific role in the cluster.

